
For testing their changes, developers need to use test machines and
other test artifacts. There are various ways in which these test
artifacts can be created. Perhaps most prevalent and easiest solution
is to ask IT to set up a test VM. Or perhaps, developers themselves
have permissions to create one.

I personally like local test objects. By local, I mean running
directly on the laptop itself. One may be surprised to learn the type
of complex environments one can set up on a single laptop (assuming
you have sufficient resources of course). For this reason, I always
advocate giving developers very powerful machines. Nothing less than
32 GB. 

With these kind of resources, one can easily run multiple test
machines, set up any type of networking they want, all running happily
on one system. What's the advantage? The most obvious one is that you
don't have any dependency on any external resources. You will be able
to work anywhere even when you are not able to connect to company
network. One may say, what about creating them in cloud? May be that
is better than creating inhouse but that still involves some
complexity as well as costing you money. And it assumes good network
which may not be the case always.

Another advantage of local test environments is that you will learn a
lot setting them up. Since you are responsible for all the plumbing,
the knowledge you gain in the process is invaluable which will help
you in the development work.
